<h4>Samsung Solve for Tomorrow Submission</h4>
September 8th, 2021 is a date lodged in the entire student body’s collective mind. On this day, our Homecoming Dance devolved from a time of joy and celebration to fear, uncertainty, and possible death. During the dance, a rumor spread amongst the student body through social media of a possible student shooter, causing alarm and concern. Into this heightened state of unease, a few students started popping balloons which led to a mass panic, with students stampeding through the halls, across the campus, and fleeing for their lives onto a nearby main road. This situation could have been a catastrophe. Crowd stampedes, more accurately known as a “crowd collapse” or “crush” routinely kill 100’s per year and injure thousands. The worst crush in recent times was the Hajj Stampede in 2015 killing 2177 people. Only 10 days ago in our local area of Houston, the Astroworld Music Festival experienced a crush that led to the death of 9 individuals including a 9 year old boy. Through research of crowd control and crowd dynamics, our team of students will target and solve the problem of crowd collapse on our campus due to the threat of a school shooter real or imagined.

An active shooter or threat of a shooter is the most likely cause of a crowd collapse on our campus and the majority of schools in our country.  Therefore, we are taking a two- pronged approach to this problem.  First, detect if there is an active shooter and relay that information; second if an evacuation is necessary, convey the most expedient and safest route out of the area reducing panic.  Our team will tackle this problem utilizing a mesh network of Arduino microcontrollers programmed to algorithmically detect gunshots.  If gunshots are detected, led strips will activate located along the floor and walls of the hallways guiding students to safety.  The strips use a color coded system of lights and arrows illustrating the best direction to travel, always leading away from the shooter.  Our team has already built a working prototype in use in one wing of the school.  The students also placed a high value in environmental sustainability, designing the system to use LED lighting technology with a bulb life of 50,000 hours, likely never requiring replacement, while also using a fraction of the electricity required of traditional bulbs. This original system is applicable to any school or venue. 
